hey everyone welcome to the Stellar
protocol discussion for may 12 2022.
in these meetings we discuss and plan
for upcoming changes to versions of the
Stellar protocol
changes that are necessary to evolve the
protocol to meet ecosystem needs I'm
just real quick a word on on venue
you know last week we tried having
this discussion in the Stellar developer
discord and there were some technical
issues so we're back to live streaming
this on youtube you know we just
don't want to let the technical issues
of a platform prevent us from having
these discussions so that we can talk
about the substance and keep moving
forward we may experiment with other
venues in the future but you know
we'll make sure to stress test platforms
so there's just not technical glitches
that prevent the conversation from
happening that said we are
discussing this week some caps that are
related to project jump cannon which is
the an announcement that we made
earlier this year that we are working to
bring smart contracts to Stellar and
as part of that there are protocol
changes that need to happen it's been a
bit different this time because we've
sort of modularized those changes into a
series of core advancement proposals
each of which focuses on a specific
aspect or specific type of change that
needs to happen to accommodate smart
contracts now if you're watching this
right now
it's a technical discussion so i advise
it's a technical discussion so I advise
looking at the links in the show notes
which are the actual links to the core
advancement proposals that we're going
to discuss
and to the discussions that exist on the
Stellar dev mailing list which is where
sort of long form
question and answers happen in addition
to the Stellar debt mailing list there's
also the Stellar dev discord and there's
a jump cannon and a jump can and dev
channel in there and anyone can join
either of those forums in order to
like see the discussion unfold or
participate in the discussion we're
doing this in the open so that you know
you can sort of see the work happening
or and also so that you can have a voice
in the changes as we make them
so that said there are a number of caps
that are on the table right now that
relate to smart contracts into jump
cannon and we discussed a few of them
last week i think this week we're going
last week I think this week we're going
to start out by talking about some of
the
classic
smart interoperability questions that
remain most of which have to do with
cat 48 and cat 49 that are kind of two
different flavors of how to approach
that and
as as recently as this morning there was
some interesting discussion on the
mailing list about that and so i think
mailing list about that and so I think
we start there
and i think
and I think
i don't know john john do you want to
I don't know john john do you want to
start
honestly i'd rather just let eco
start i mean nico posted this huge thing
start I mean nico posted this huge thing
with a bunch of questions and i
responded to it
so like it's kind of niko's turn to
talk in the sense that I'm I'm the most
recent speaker on the thread
so maybe we can just kind of go
through and we can try to figure out
basically just kind of talk through some
of these questions and understand what
we're actually talking about and make
sure we're on the same page on a variety
of different things and if we're not on
the same page get on the same page
that sounds good
wall of text yeah
sorry
yeah so i guess like maybe i don't
yeah so I guess like maybe I don't
know like
one of the things we can talk about is
actually around compliance because i
think that's actually the most important
bit
that
that is in there okay
i mean like I'm
I mean like I'm
i think we
I think we
we should discuss potentially changing i
mean maybe not this time around but like
you know that this is like in
there's an
level of expectation in terms of on the
compliance front that i think we
compliance front that I think we
should maybe
adjust even in classic so that we can
make things work for
for john cannon so like the type of
things I'm talking about here is
that both proposals kind of suffer from
the same problem
so
today if you have an asset that you
issued on on the seller network
and you
like our version basically we only have
like a couple of smart contracts
basically on today right like we have
emms and the decks those are like
the kind of equivalent and today we
track
if you have like money
or any asset locked into a contract it's
going to be
recovered basically
when you your authorization gets
revoked
and i think this breaks completely in
and I think this breaks completely in
jump cannon because
well that's actually not
well if we don't do anything right like
like because the only thing that gets
really revoked is
is your trust line like the ground of
your trust line like you you lose
access to your wallet but if you
parked your your money in some
smart contract that is the
you know like the i know shady guy
you know like the I know shady guy
on the corner
basically
there's no way to to enforce anything
there so so then the question is like
well
what do we do because if you don't do
anything
in both proposals
we're basically saying well you know if
you want to get around any kind of
restrictions just you know send your
money to this smart contract over there
and then
it's like this super mixer or something
and then like you can
you can't reasonably have enforcement
so maybe we can start with that like we
can say well that's okay that's the new
new reality
and then my then i would argue that
and then my then I would argue that
we should just stop doing what we are
doing in classic like or at least say
that we are going to stop doing
you know recover basically like
assets from from from pools or from our
other decks like if
you know because that's actually a lot
of of the overhead that we have today in
classic
so
i'll start with that like i don't
i'll start with that like I don't
know what people think
so i can just start with saying what how
so I can just start with saying what how
i responded to your question to the same
I responded to your question to the same
question from the email thread which was
basically like
this does work in cap 48 and cap 49. you
just might not like the way it works
but like all the compliance controls
that exist on classic still exist they
just don't extend to all the contracts
by default
so you might recall
nico would definitely recall because we
we spoke about it a lot when we were
doing the liquidity pools
that we had this discussion about
whether we should go back and make
people you know revoke trust on revoke
authorization on every single liquidity
pool individually or do the whole thing
globally
and
basically like usability for issuers run
out
what one out over like simplicity of
protocol design
and we ended up making it so that like
basically you revoke and it just gets
everything automatically
but both cap 40 and cat 49 just revert
back to the hey you have to go and
manually chase everything down mode
which is the only mode that is
sensible in smart contract land
like there's the only possible moods
are you have to go and chase everything
down yourself or you can do nothing
but they're the third mode of it does it
all automatically is not a feasible
solution here
but basically the way that you would
deal with this in in the cap let's talk
about the cap 48 or cap 49 world doesn't
really matter for the sake of argument
so let's just say in cap 48
the way you would do this is like hey
like suppose that i want to evade
like suppose that I want to evade
authorization stuff and so i send my
authorization stuff and so I send my
money to some
random contract
well
you look off chain and you say okay like
where is this guy been sending his money
oh he sent his money to this contract
frees that address
and the issuer just goes through and
kind of freezes everywhere where I'm
sending money until they get all their
money back
so basically like your actions
contaminate all the downstream systems
and that works fine because at the end
of the day in cap 48 all the money is
stored like when money is held by a
contract like classic money is held by a
contract
it's living in a trust line
and so you can just use the normal
authorization techniques on it or in the
cap 49 world
there's like the
like the interoperability layer has
authorization and you can do the exact
same thing you just do it at the
contract layer instead of at the
at the inter at the trustline layer
so you can do this it's just kind of
annoying
but it's not just nothing
so so well so the thing is that you can
actually design better protocols that
you want
like those smart contracts firm
compliance you should design a
compliance protocol that actually allows
to do something
a little better than that because like
like this situation that you're
like
describing here i mean it's like you're
describing here I mean it's like you're
shutting down the bank because there's
like one guy that
you know
that doesn't behave and that doesn't
sound like
practical
i mean i don't think you can like i know
I mean I don't think you can like I know
i like the smart contract is the bank
I like the smart contract is the bank
right like it's kind of like that it's
it's an automated thing that holds
assets on behalf of a bunch of people
i don't think you can generally do
I don't think you can generally do
better than that
the reason being contracts are mutable
and so like suppose that i have some
and so like suppose that I have some
contract and i claim to comply with your
contract and I claim to comply with your
you know your compliance protocol
right meaning like the you know it's a
contract it can hold acid a and acid b
and they claim to control to comply with
both acid as an asset b is compliance
protocol
and then at some point they decided like
you know we don't want to do that
and they just redeploy
without the compliance controls and now
that money is unrecoverable
so like the only thing the only recourse
the issuer would have against that would
be to go and freeze up the bank anyway
so like yes you can design a protocol
that has better properties than that
but the fact is that in a world with
anything being mutable you can't really
like you can't avoid the need to fall
back on that of course as a fallback i i
back on that of course as a fallback I i
see that is you know reasonable but
if that's the only option
it's not the only option in the world
you can design whatever you want right
but like in the context of classic
assets that are authorized if you are
saying
that
the def this kind of default world
that we are that they know they had like
a bunch of comments on on on like are we
forcing people to be opted into this new
thing
that doesn't fit
the
expectation from people
i mean the
I mean the
basically like if we don't opt people in
we'll end up in a world where everything
is useless because people don't opt in
like
in a world where we can't like where we
can't assume that people will do
anything and that is the world we should
assume we live in
then basically all the work we've been
doing for the last seven years could be
a total waste you know like all the
anchors we've onboard and stuff if we
can't get them to take the actions that
would be required it's just like hey we
just threw it all out
ideally everything just works
automatically and we do the same thing
and if you want to do something better
than the same thing then that's when you
have to take action
and that's the world i would expect like
and that's the world I would expect like
for example if you don't want this
default behavior hey there's an easy
solution to that set your asset to auth
required and then nobody will be able to
send money into the the smart contract
side of it
and then all you have to do is just
deploy your own wrapper and you get
whatever functionality you want but
that's the action path
and since most people don't have author
cards that they don't have automatable
set they don't have author vocals that
they don't have off club backable or
whatever the hell that one is called
clawback enabled or whatever this the
default behavior is what everybody is
inheriting anyway
all the time right every day I'm talking
about specifically yeah yeah like for
the mutable stuff i agree we can
the mutable stuff I agree we can
basically kind of take the same stance
that i think we've been taking with
that I think we've been taking with
claimable balances for example which is
you take whatever the
the the current
statement of the issue is is kind of
what you inherit right no no that's not
what I'm proposing at all
you're muted oh i don't know
you're muted oh I don't know
can you not hear me I'm not muted on my
side
there was nothing i can hear
there was nothing I can hear
i can hear him he said that's not what
I can hear him he said that's not what
he's proposing at all
okay i don't know what I'm proposing is
okay I don't know what I'm proposing is
you and can you hear me now
yes yeah okay what I'm proposing is that
you inherit the current state of the
flags whatever they are
right that's what I'm saying yeah like
not like they don't get frozen like if i
go and change my flags i inherit the new
go and change my flags I inherit the new
flags
the way that it works for like authors
no but like like if you want to yeah but
no number like well
if if you wanted to if you were saying
I'm right now I'm not earth required and
then in future i become art required
then in future I become art required
well it's kind of too late you're
all this stuff is now out in smart and
you know out of control basically like
oh you have to you're kind of
yeah and there's a great solution to
that you know what you do
you set yourself to author required and
then you go and claw back everybody's
money
that's it
like would you really call that a great
solution
yeah it is a great solution actually
the reason i consider it a great
the reason I consider it a great
solution is because
nobody has their flag set so this can
happen to you right now anyway basically
like you know like any issuer
can come and just freeze up all your
assets whenever they want to and just
say like hey like you have two options
either you are frozen forever or you
accept my new terms of service and you
you basically do a swat
that's it anybody can do that at any
time and the thing i want to make happen
time and the thing I want to make happen
is just have everything that works today
just working smart
that is like my number one goal but the
thing is i mean going back to this
thing is I mean going back to this
though like i think it kind of
though like I think it kind of
breaks everything and smart if you allow
people to just kind of like i take the
people to just kind of like I take the
example of a poo right a a a trading
pool if i change the reserve in some
pool if I change the reserve in some
random way I'm breaking all the
environments of that pool correct and so
there are two solutions to that problem
both of which i i actually laid out in
both of which I actually laid out in
the email i sent to you the first one is
the email I sent to you the first one is
to say like hey like assets that aren't
frozen as off immutable can't use them
basically like you check in advance
whether it's good to go and if it's not
good to go you can't do it
so in this case it'd be like automutable
not off revocable
the other option is you actually have
a guard in your contract which checks
that the balances are what you expect
them to be
so basically like you track the balances
internally there's only two in a
liquidity bowl so it's not a big deal
and then when you actually start doing
work you check like hey like are the
balances on chain equal to the balances
that i expect if not i know that there
that I expect if not I know that there
was an external thing frozen
and that's basically like a single bad
actor poisoning the bank
but in that world there's a huge
incentive for the owner of the contract
to go and resolve the problem to
liberate all their other users
so
well then if they use the user of our
contract
what do you mean like many of those no
well like like what i mean is that
well like like what I mean is that
in many cases the contract like is this
thing that you want to lock and that's
kind of it there's no like operator
right
i mean like if you want to live in a
I mean like if you want to live in a
world where you're using
auth required assets and you're taking
multiple people's money you better have
an operator because those problems can't
always be resolved on chain
like there's like the standard liquidity
pool token would never like design would
never let you escape that situation
but that's not the expectation in this
web 3 world is that you want to have
like a like like an mm right like you
don't want to have like
some random operator or like controlling
the internals of the mm
you might need to
like if your contract is if your
contract is immutable
and you accept the funds and the funds
can be frozen
then there's just literally no way to
resolve your problems without an
operator
so the solution exactly so that's why
like it sounds kind of broken to allow
that to happen in the first place
i i don't think it's broken you should
I I don't think it's broken you should
know better than to do that
like the only the only other option is
to prevent that and just say like hey
like these assets are useless
that's what i i think we should do so
that's what I think we should do so
you think that usdc should be useless
it should be like if there is no
yes like you know I'm like it's leslie
okay great
that's
is either you allow people to claw back
or like make random changes to your
state breaking all environments like you
can't write software i mean you have to
can't write software I mean you have to
know all those environs ahead of time
right like what what can happen what are
the situations
that that can happen with this one asset
that i can accept you can't you have to
that I can accept you can't you have to
kind of inherit that in every single
smart contract
because you have to make the assumption
that oh yeah somebody can mess with my
you know trust lines or whatever like
you know the equivalent of trust lines
that sounds kind of super weird so let
me let me make a couple statements here
the first statement is like you can
write software that doesn't have this
problem because you can have the guards
on it the second step everybody needs to
put the grounds sure the second
statement is that
on ethereum usdc is blacklistable
I i've read the contract it is very
clearly blacklistable in fact i believe
clearly blacklistable in fact I believe
the term that they use in the contract
actually is that it inherits
blacklistable
so it's right there and the third
thing is there are liquidity pools that
have that functionality nonetheless
that like you know you can go and trade
usdc in a liquidity pool
so that's an extension to esc 20 then
that is blacklistable
right yeah it's just additional
functionality
right but
this is like then it goes back to maybe
like you know we are not implementing
erc20 on the network we're actually
implementing something
broader than that we have to
i i don't agree like those contracts the
I I don't agree like those contracts the
interface that those that like unit swap
is depending on is the erc20 interface
the other stuff is just that's not true
you're saying that if if what you do you
have a new initial pool with usdc
that can like I'm pretty sure like you
take if if you're attesting is true if
you if there's a pool somewhere
on ethereum right that has USDC
and USDC decides to blacklist the pool
or do something crazy with it
the pool is now compromised basically
it's done
i that could be the case we'd have to go
I that could be the case we'd have to go
and review the code but that could be
the case and then there's like
potentially a cascading effect right
like like you know people may have
corrupted this as character or something
like it basically has all sorts of weird
things yeah i think we'd have to go and
things yeah I think we'd have to go and
confirm whether that's actually the case
but i do believe that that is possible
but like the following statements are
true
usdc is not authentable
ustc has no flags yet set
it is unlikely we will end up in a world
where usdc will set any of the flags
especially immutable
because they'd like to control their
future
and specifically
like they won't set
not revocable
and we know that because their ethereum
one is revocable
so like in this world you basically are
saying like if we don't want to handle
that
then usdc should be useless on
smart
and then i would question whether we
and then I would question whether we
should do this at all
i mean i don't know it sounds
I mean I don't know it sounds
complicated to have like
the default being like this super
complex thing to deal with on the on
smart side
i mean maybe but that means that we have
I mean maybe but that means that we have
to expose more than just the rc20 we
might be able to i mean one thing we
might be able to I mean one thing we
might be able to do
is make it so that
assets are
like we might be able to do the clawback
inheritance thing
because it's a lot easier to deal with
frozen than claw back
frozen yeah
yeah destroys everything yeah
well it doesn't again you can put the
guards in which do exactly the same
thing it's not hard
but right but then but it's still the
same thing like you cannot use basically
any assets
useful assets
what do you mean sorry
you're saying that usdc has no is not
immutable so it is not
but if we did the clawback inheritance
thing it wouldn't really matter you run
a contract you can check whether it has
clawback enabled and you don't have to
do the clawback cards and if you try to
make a payment you'll just fail because
you're blacklisted
right
is there a next question we should move
on to
it's definitely no like like the thing
that this conversation is really shows
that it's going to be very hard for
people to write smart contracts that
don't break
because if we are serious about
compliance
and
if we don't add compliance into like the
default
thing that we're or like if we don't
address this beyond what 48 currently
defines
theoretically people are still going to
want functionality probably like this
for some assets and so they're gonna go
and implement them this themselves i
guess
in
in a contract
and then are we gonna end up in the same
situation like you know there are people
are gonna write like a liquidity pool
that doesn't handle those edge cases
just like what
john you were pointing out on happens
on ethereum
but to be clear i don't know that that's
but to be clear I don't know that that's
true for a fact i suspected it right but
true for a fact I suspected it right but
i mean like we're going to end up we
I mean like we're going to end up we
probably end up with something similar
where we have the basic erc20 somebody
goes and defines a blacklistable or a
deny listable interface
some people ignore that other people
code around it
it's i don't know it doesn't really
it's I don't know it doesn't really
sound like we're actually avoiding the
problem by not implementing it in ours
we're just we're saying like
we're not going to provide that
interoperability if we don't
i mean i don't disagree with you like
I mean I don't disagree with you like
like
if we don't provide this functionality
and people require it they will just
build it
right so so by deciding to build it or
not we're not actually changing with the
weather whether the problem exists or
not we're just saying that we're not
going to
support interoperability with these
features of Stellar assets
right so i think what it comes down to i
right so I think what it comes down to i
think is that
it's like what i was saying like what we
it's like what I was saying like what we
need to then do is
use
classic assets as kind of the
testing ground for what are those
additional
properties that you need to expose
so that everybody from day one basically
handles those such cases
there's like basically no chance we can
achieve that i want to emphasize like
achieve that I want to emphasize like
number like it could be as simple as
yeah like exposing the art like
some you know something
i mean like my argument would be like
I mean like my argument would be like
there's no way to globally handle
callback at least
like
the only thing that's going on
I'm not saying
I'm not I'm not saying handle club like
clawback i think requires its own set of
clawback I think requires its own set of
protocol like actual api you know like a
when i say protocol here i mean like you
when I say protocol here I mean like you
know what are like the
the
the the methods that you need to expose
as a smart contract in order to support
kind of a nice
low friction clawback
but i don't think that would be in scope
but I don't think that would be in scope
in anytime soon
like i think there is no basically like
like I think there is no basically like
we don't really support glowback in
in
smart
i mean we don't support it as in you
I mean we don't support it as in you
know if if clawback is enabled well
first you have to know about it
and then it potentially if you if it
can be enabled you have to be able to
handle the situations where it would
happen
isn't isn't that enough like as long as
a contract can detect whether the assets
it is interacting with is clawback
enabled or sorry if sorry if the
contracts trust line is callback and
they would not the asset
then the contract knows whether it can
take on that risk on or whether it wants
to interact
because like we have the same problem
with starlight with the payment channels
like payment channels don't work or
payment channels are not as safe
if the assets can just be clawed back
out of the payment channel like the
payment it's like undefined you end up
in undefined behavior
and you know when we worked on that we
said well
that's the risk you take if you do
multi-asset channels and if you do
single asset channels like you just need
to work with the issuer
so are we saying this is a problem just
because we expect people to write
immutable contracts where there's no
issue that you can go to like there's no
one you can like talk to
about the problem like is that the
distinction
i mean i mean i think maybe like it
I mean I mean I think maybe like it
would help to have like
like some concrete
super concrete examples on the cable
because i mean i think what's weird is
because I mean I think what's weird is
that there's like there's
even without clawback enabled there's of
course the ultimate clawback which is
that someone could say we're not going
to honor this asset and we're going to
issue some new asset because something
went horribly wrong right so you could
always just make the issue can always
make the token useless so i think that
make the token useless so I think that
we're worried about this like
this i mean it's not maybe not
this I mean it's not maybe not
improbable but it's this kind of weird
situation where someone kind of does
something that is kind of changes the
rules but such that we don't believe
that the asset is worthless anymore but
now we no longer know whom it belongs to
it some somehow like broken the
attribution of who owns the asset right
like this is what we're worried about
like if the asset were worthless okay
fine that was the risk we took but if
like that is still worth worth something
but maybe there's a contract with two
units of a and two people who are
allowed to claim it and suddenly you've
clawed back one and now the semantic
says whoever gets their first gets to
claim their and the other person doesn't
and we think that's unfair or like
otherwise could you just like paint some
some of these like scenarios that we're
concerned about
like concretely what it might look like
i mean i i think one concrete scenario
I mean I think one concrete scenario
would be like you have a liquidity pool
that's pegged with like that between
two
usd
like fully collateralized stable coins
call them usdt and ustc and let's
pretend for the sake of argument whether
it's true or not that usdt is in fact
really actually truly collateralized I'm
not making a statement whether it is or
isn't in this context
so let's pretend how about you and usd
sure great usdi and usdb and we'll just
pretend we know which one's which
but
and basically like you have this pool
and let's say it's got like 100 million
usda and 100 million usdb plus or minus
epsilon on both sides because maybe the
price is actually like 99 cents or 99.9
cents or whatever who cares
and then the issuer of usdb is like oh
actually that was like osama bin laden
my bad and gets a call from the us
government and like revokes 25 million
dollars
and now the pool and I'm sorry i said
and now the pool and I'm sorry I said
revoked i mean clause back 25 million
revoked I mean clause back 25 million
dollars and now the pool is kind of in
this like super bowl state
well actually well presumably what
happened is immediately arbitragers
would get in there and suck out a bunch
of
destroyed meaning sucked out to
arbitrage
and that's kind of bad
your only defense against this
or you could either say like hey like i
checked that this asset was clawbackable
and like that's a risk you took by
putting money into this pool
or you can put you can say like hey like
you can't make a pool if it's
cloud-backable or you can have a guard
that checks whether the balances are
still what those contracts thought let's
let's can we step back from mechanism a
second and say like what is it suppose
that like what we can do is between any
two transactions we can do whatever we
want right so like
pretend we're god for a second and luke
what is the ideal response to this
look like
so first of all it seems a little is is
it is it
the terrorists who have actually
invested in the liquidity pool
so
so it's like what you would really want
to do is sort of like revoke the assets
in proportion you'd want to kind of like
revoke some the us government can only
you know
let's say revoke usda not usdb
so what you should do is like you should
like freeze in proportion to what's been
clawed back
so that you keep the proportion of
assets the same
right and ultimately ultimately the
right thing to do is that the terrorists
are not allowed to
withdraw their money from liquidity
pool and everybody else it kind of is
business as usual right
right i think that's what yeah that's
right I think that's what yeah that's
what you're doing the current product
you know in our classic protocol today
yeah exactly which one we have to
withdraw like we first withdraw like the
the pull shares for that individual
but i don't know if we want to replicate
but I don't know if we want to replicate
that behavior
okay so can we first figure out what we
would want in an ideal world and then
figure out what whether there are
sensible mechanisms that could achieve
it well what's your definition of what
you want
that's what I'm trying to figure out
i mean like you know no i mean like
I mean like you know no I mean like
what's even like i guess maybe that's
what's even like I guess maybe that's
what you're asking like what is even a
desirable aspect of this exactly
like
i guess let me describe to you what i
I guess let me describe to you what i
would consider like the most ideal
possible world
great
the most ideal possible world would
probably be that
every contract like imagine you actually
care about clawback i don't know if we
care about clawback I don't know if we
do who cares but let's pretend so
focusing on clawback like the most ideal
possible world would probably be that
every contract implements a like
issuer clawback function
and basically like the issuer's the
only one who can call that whatever you
want the issuer to be I'm talking about
native like classic assets
and the issuer's first point of call is
to call that admin function when it
wants to do something
and if it does that the the contract
hopefully does the right thing
and if the contract doesn't provide that
functionality or doesn't do the right
thing then the issuer just takes
whatever action is necessary in order
for them to comply
whatever that means and damn all who
suffer
that's probably like the best possible
world you could achieve
so like let's say that that's what we
wanted to happen
okay so actually before i continue does
okay so actually before I continue does
anybody have a better world
okay so basically we're adding a new
method that like you're you're required
to implement or maybe there's a default
value but like the sensible way to
implement it
is that you know you you do whatever
should happen but but like basically
your contract gets to react every time
funds are clawed back no no that's not
what I'm saying oh sorry no
i guess
where is this function defined is it
defined on the contract that owns the
asset or is it defined on every contract
that
holds an asset
i guess yeah
I guess yeah
every country could be the whole it has
to be the contract that holds the asset
like the pool has to implement that
thing yeah so the question is so the
question is
we could do this and so the question is
like is there a sensible default like do
we force everybody to implement this or
like you know but then that's like a
barrier to like deploying your your
smart contract because i just like write
smart contract because I just like write
more code or is there some kind of
default like the default is like the
contract is frozen until it gets
upgraded or something or i don't know
upgraded or something or I don't know
like
i think the default should be you can
I think the default should be you can
opt out basically of this whole thing
like you can basically say i don't want
like you can basically say I don't want
to deal with assets that have those type
of properties
because it's you know i see so if you
because it's you know I see so if you
haven't implemented this function then
you just can't hold certain assets that
are
no i totally don't think this makes any
no I totally don't think this makes any
sense because i can implement this
sense because I can implement this
function and just
assert
that could be my whole implementation
that's what i mean so assert basically
that's what I mean so assert basically
says freeze the smart contract until
and you know as as soon as any funds
have been called back from it
I'm sorry i cut off late
yeah so he's put his contract yeah yeah
i guess no like i think david is
I guess no like I think david is
probably right
you don't want to
you don't want to kind of have like the
like in the case of a pool right
you probably don't want to have like
an arbitrary amount taken under your
feet because this breaks all your
environs
instead you want to
just like what you want that to happen
and probably in addition
the contract gets completely stopped
the default I'm talking about the
default yeah so the default is that it
should stop the contract but also it
should grant someone permission to
upgrade the contract or something
right
i mean you know
i mean like basically what we need is
I mean like basically what we need is
like human intervention right like we
did this thing assuming that these
dollars were fine and suddenly like the
rules have completely changed so of
course we could just lock all the assets
in perpetuity or we could like
you know figure out some way to like you
know arbitrate the situation you know
which
might require human judgment because
this wasn't something we just put like a
yeah like
20 digits proof of work you know unlock
code on it
so i want to go back to something that
so I want to go back to something that
you said david like oh like what you
know if you don't define this function
then you know you don't support these
type of assets i think like we're
type of assets I think like we're
talking about two different things here
like there's
contracts deciding if they want to use
an asset and they can do that if we
provide a way for them just to read
their own trust line like does my trust
line
have
clawback enabled
simple function simple flag
no no but I'm saying like if if a
contract has any trust line that gets
clawed back then there has to be a then
there's a function to kind of deal with
that there's like a car yes so i think
that there's like a car yes so I think
what we're talking about is is hooks or
the idea of to hook into an event that's
happening
rather rather than rather than having a
function that does the thing that needs
to happen we just want like a function
that notifies the contract this is
happening
whether you like it or not because you
decided to hold a claw backable asset so
like once you hold it you can't get out
of this happening
and then you just get told when it
happens
so
contracts don't have to provide that
function if they don't care that it
happens it'll just happen and the
consequences will just be whatever they
are
but if you care about it and you want to
mutate your internal state maybe or
update something then you have the
option to do that
but i guess what we're anticipating is
but I guess what we're anticipating is
that there are a bunch of situations
where people write contracts without
any possible idea like they just can't
imagine that usdc would ever like try to
claw back their asset
and yet you know two years later usdc
like sets the claw backable whatever
it's called clawback enabled flag on
their account and actually like claws
something back right and so basically
that though like so clawback is designed
so that once you hold once you have a
truss line you can't get enabled so i
mean we've already designed around that
i think
I think
the other the other thing we can do
is you know we can make the sdk
or however you're interacting you're
writing contracts so that when the
account
when the contract says I'm willing to
hold an asset I'm assuming that we're
going to have some way of saying that
like on stella like on classic
like on Stellar like on classic
you have to explicitly say that
you're going to allow the outside to be
clawbackable
and then you know maybe that call fails
if you just haven't passed that flag in
if the asset is clawbackable
like
so then coming back i think john like
so then coming back I think john like
your example then is not so scary
because in your example either usda or
usdb already had to be
have clawback enabled right so is
there some other example that's more
scary so so actually just to be clear
the proposal i wrote
the proposal I wrote
the like
it was actually based off of the current
flag so like things could become
claw-backable later we don't have to do
it like that
but they can't become callbackable
later for an existing trust line well
that's how it's that's how like the
current stuff works that's not what my
proposal specified at least not cat
49 cap 48 i i guess does work like that
49 cap 48 I guess does work like that
kind of default it doesn't have to be
like that we could make it all work like
this
just a little extra complexity to deal
with some stuff but it might save
complexity somewhere else
but the thing that I'm like skeptical
about here is like the notion of a
callback here like you probably don't
want to do callbacks
callback it could be that like the the
contract is stuck until someone calls
the the un the the cleanup clawback
method or something but
my argument would really be like to
implement this the whole opposite way
which is basically like hey like we have
a strong recommendation for you to
implement this function
and if you implement it we encourage
issuers to use it
there is no promise that they will
because at the end of the day like
if the issuer needs to do something
unilaterally they should be able to and
since then sure but
why should this be up to the issuers
like the
i guess what I'm saying is like the the
I guess what I'm saying is like the the
invocation should be a result of
something happening on classic not of
the issue or doing some kind of smart
contract thing
no it definitely has to be a smart
contractor thing first of all because
definitely should not be the issuer not
paying gas to clean up other people's
smart contracts who did not
who did not like anticipate something
being well that that raises a problem
then because like if i ride my hook my
then because like if I ride my hook my
callback to use like some obscene amount
of gas like who's going to pay for that
what that's the point like somebody who
cares about that contract
what no oh well you're saying if it's
called at a different time
i i mean at the end of the day like
I I mean at the end of the day like
the
callback could always fail
right
even if you implement it and you think
it won't fail it could still like for
example like consider like a usda usdb
liquidity pool right
what does a clawback on Stellar do well
it returns both assets well what if the
other asset you were already
frozen well then the operation would
fail and so they look like at the end of
the day like there has to be the support
for a unilateral clawback anyway and the
contract has to handle that
and so like in the world where there is
a unilateral clawback we might as well
just say that the contract should supply
a function and the issuer should call it
but you have to deal with it if they
don't anyway
if if anybody can call this function is
that like can can anybody call a
function
i would say that it would have it should
I would say that it would have it should
have a guard on the issuer type of thing
so basically it should check like hey
like is the person who can call this the
person who can call it
i mean presumably what it should do
I mean presumably what it should do
like the function should like
examine all the trust lines and if
they're all in the expected state not do
anything and otherwise clean up the mass
yeah i feel like what we're describing
yeah I feel like what we're describing
is like some general function like we're
actually just going a more general
function that just is
something might be wrong go check your
state
yeah figure it out if it's not and like
we're not actually talking about
callbacks specifically we're more
talking about how to get a contract
unstuck that gets in a bad state
that's not really talking sure yeah
that's way harder to try like
there's only one if you're in a
generically borked state there's only
one solution
human intervention
that's the only possible solution if
you're generically borked
because in what way are you borked well
only a human can determine that unless
you've written a program that can
analyze the state of all the program of
like all the possible states that you're
in
and since like that sounds generally
hard and like generally not feasible in
a gas like research constrained world
there's like no hope of that
so
okay so the distinction of the function
you're talking about is that because
only the issuer could call this because
there's a guard for that
me writing a contract i can trust the
me writing a contract I can trust the
issue we'll only call this if they are
in fact doing this thing
I'm very clearly saying like
there's no protocol specifications here
at all
the only thing I'm saying is like it is
a recommendation to people who write
contracts that they should provide a
function that implements clawback if
they would like to hold callbackable
assets right but as the contract author
i need to be thinking about where my
I need to be thinking about where my
trust lies so if this function is going
to mutate the internal state of my
contract
i
i've got to be trusting the issuer to
only call it
when this is actually happening
i don't necessarily know what you
I don't necessarily know what you
mean like
the the function should be implemented
in such a way that it leave like it like
leaves your contract in a same state so
like
if you want it to only be callable by
the issuer which would be the same thing
to do you should check that
but you don't have to check that in
theory you could let anybody close out
on your contract it just sucks you do
not want to be called by the issuer
right the issuer is not in general going
to know about every smart contract using
their asset well you want to be you want
to be callable by anyone but only do
anything if like something unexpected is
happening in the state of your trust
lines right so you want like a basically
you want basically a like like a
board on board
check that's at the beginning of most of
your methods right and then you want to
clean up the mess method that like
anybody can call to like clean up the
thing that's causing all the other
methods to i think john's function
methods to I think john's function
the issuer is clawing back from the
contracts account and so the issue knows
about the contract in this case because
they're clawing it back so that's why
they know to call that function on on
the contract
and i mean
clearly why did they care like that's
not like maybe the issuer only does
classic you know like
like does usdc care about smart
contracts like they're there to provide
an asset that has a well-defined you
know redemption path and like that's
fine they're not here to like parse
people's smart contracts and spend a
bunch of gas doing whatever right so
i i feel like
I I feel like
what what we need to do is just have
a way
for
a people who care about a smart contract
to clean up the mess when the smart
contracts assumptions about assets are
no longer correct
or about trust lines which in theory
where you know we've been talking about
mutable contracts so like
even if a contract
is in the worst possible state somebody
can upload a new version of that
contract to fix it only if somebody can
actually do so
right but like nico nico protested
against my notion that these contracts
would even be mutable if they're mutable
there's no problem
like in the world where the contracts
are immutable and somebody actually has
the authority to mute them mutate them
whether that is like an issue like not
an issue sorry an organization an entity
or a person
there's no problem the accounts get
frozen
or the accounts get called back the
issuer just you know the owner of that
contract just calls up the issuer of the
asset and says like hey like how do we
fix this problem oh this is how we need
to mutate the state cool i'll write the
function to do that i mean one can
function to do that I mean one can
imagine you know wanting to set up a
contract that you can only change when
it gets worked or something like you
know
maybe there's value for like yes if
suddenly like uscc gets called back then
i get the ability to upgrade this
I get the ability to upgrade this
contract but usually i don't want this
contract but usually I don't want this
ability because like you know the
contract should be its own logic that
would be easy to write though you could
write that contract
that's not hard you can do that without
any magic at all
so
i don't know i feel like we're not
I don't know I feel like we're not
all talking about the same thing here
and i think that's why we're not
and I think that's why we're not
agreeing on stuff like
what kind of clawbacks are there other
like types of edge case or edge cases
that that this would apply to or is that
or is it just the club like sorry
classic clawbacks
a clawback enabled asset that gets the
trip that that invokes clawback classic
clawback right are there other state
changes that could happen on classic
that would lead to this situation or is
this limited to clawbacks
i mean like getting frozen would be
I mean like getting frozen would be
not as complicated but equally bad so an
auth required token where you
deauthorize the trust line so there are
the other auth flags because because
it's also like can we just say hey no
no
clawback enabled
assets in smart contracts can't use them
maybe
like
maybe i mean like here's a way that you
maybe I mean like here's a way that you
could implement this
if we wanted that basically like
you can only
send
you can only create a in the cat 48
world you can only create a trust line
for a smart contract to an asset
that is already
going basically like that operation of
creating the trust line would fail if
you would end up with the
clawback enabled flag on your
trustline and then you just never end up
in this world
yeah i think we should just make it like
yeah I think we should just make it like
a choice you know you call
trust trustline with no options and
that's the case it just fails if it's
callback enabled or there's like an
additional flag or option you can pass
that just says like
I'm willing to go the
potentially unsafe unsafe route of
having a trust line that's called like
enabled and then at least it's surfaced
to the developer like it's in their face
it's the same thing that we're talking
about with re-entry yeah the surface so
they know about it
dave
david on the context of the cleanup
method i think the big issue with the
method I think the big issue with the
cleanup method is like there are worlds
that you can enter where you don't know
how to clean up
like you don't necessarily know what
like suppose that an issue or claws back
from your contract
do you know why they did that
so how do you fix the state of your
contract well I'm thinking like what the
cleanup method could do is it could like
add a signing key to or somehow like
enable the author of the contract to
upgrade it for example or
like it goes in safe mode or something
and then unlock some like a maintenance
i think that's one of the
I think that's one of the
like
like patterns that some smart contracts
have already like you have like even the
ones that have like a dial like you have
you know you can basically go into this
maintenance mode
it just takes like a week or something
like it's not
instant
there was a bug a few months ago
actually on a i think a bridge protocol
actually on a I think a bridge protocol
or something where
it was not a week it was like a second
instead but
yeah
i i just i don't know personally i just
I I just I don't know personally I just
feel like we're making this really
complicated like
at the end of the day i feel like
at the end of the day I feel like
usability should be front of mind for
developers
and like if we make this complicated
nobody's going to use it and then we
failed
right
so
can i say
can I say
the question is so the point but so the
only we would need to have a default for
this method right so like we're not
saying like everybody has to implement a
method but but like basically
basically the the problem is that like
people are going to make assumptions
about trust lines and every once in a
while these assumptions may like
break you know like a way that would
cause like really weird like you know
unspecified behavior of of the smart
contract and so
should we have some default thing where
like by default the the contract like
enters maintenance mode or whatever
when these assumptions are broken i mean
when these assumptions are broken I mean
that assumes that we like we impose a
maintenance mode onto the entire world
and i just don't think we should
and I just don't think we should
like if you want that behavior well you
said assert what happens when an assert
fails like are you seriously thinking
about having an assert
well what i meant about in a search was
well what I meant about in a search was
like i was actually giving you a
like I was actually giving you a
pathological case of where what you were
proposing wouldn't work for the cleanup
oh it's just it just asserts and fails
it says nothing you cannot do it it's
like oh what what's good did that do you
right like anybody can like that i
for an assert to have to have an asset
you also need to write that condition
in the first place right like
no no I'm saying that's not like a false
that's that's no no no i i see yeah
that's that's no no no I see yeah
number like even no but like i was even
number like even no but like I was even
thinking for like
you know even if you have like all the
defaults and all that stuff like you
have to write your environs in a way
so that you can handle you can know
basically that you are blocked
and that that sounds kind of not
workable
well i mean i guess you know to my
well I mean I guess you know to my
proposal would basically be that anytime
a third party like forcibly does
something to one of your trust lines
you get in a state where someone has to
call this cleanup function if you
haven't implemented the cleanup function
then like nothing can happen to your
contract
that just sounds undesirable to me
but maybe your contract
sounds pretty undesirable too which is
that like whoever first like which is
like a bunch of arbitragers go in and
suck out like all the money that's there
by accident no no my proposal is just
that
like if you're a contract developer you
should handle it figure out what you're
saying you can you can
but how do we know people are going to
do this right we don't and if they don't
then they're then like it's the same
thing as any other smartphone so when
they don't do we want like people to
lose money to arbitragers or do we want
like the contract to freeze and people
have to like debate how to clean up the
mess what if it can't be cleaned up like
what if there's nobody who owns the
contract that was the case that nico was
talking about if nobody owns the
contract nobody can clean it up and now
the money's just locked up forever
well then maybe the default
implementation of this function is that
it like
hands signing authority back to
whichever account like created this
market what if they don't have a key
anymore
yeah then everybody loses their money
well that's the world that niko was
talking about with the contract being
immutable like again if the contract is
mutable there's just not really a
problem here
well it is a problem if everybody loses
their money no no in the world where the
contracts are mutable
and people can actually perform the
mutation i mean
mutation I mean
there's not really a problem because
people can just come through and clean
up the mess
no no sorry they can't clean up the mess
if arbitragers have sucked out a bunch
of money that's why you should handle
the guarding conditions that you need if
you do need
them well i feel like we're out of time
them well I feel like we're out of time
for this discussion right here in person
today but it seems like there's a lot
i mean i think we just got to keep keep
I mean I think we just got to keep keep
working async on the dev discussion
mailing list and on the discord
and reconvene here next week i don't
and reconvene here next week I don't
know i don't know what the next steps
know I don't know what the next steps
are though
i mean like like the thing i wanted to
I mean like like the thing I wanted to
say is like i i think
say is like I think
for for the first phase of this i think
for for the first phase of this I think
i would i would do what's kind of what
I would I would do what's kind of what
lee was saying which is like
we don't support global
assets
right like if you if you have to have on
your trust line basically
this for cla for those classic things
I'm talking about
for the first version you can't even
you can't do anything right and then
you can deploy a contract basically
that uses that and then
and then in in
parallel or later we can figure out this
global like how can we make clawback
work in in smart world and then retrofit
this to to classic
i think the main lines of work should be
I think the main lines of work should be
the first one should be like let's go
and figure out what happens with these
kinds of contracts on ethereum
like these problems exist people are
doing something that's why they don't
though right because the one thing
that's different here is that there's
this the classic world is going to kind
of reach in and mess with the smart
contract world in a way that can't
happen in ethereum that's not true
like i literally told you that usdc has
like I literally told you that usdc has
an auth revoke function
it has revoked like so it has yeah you
can revoke i don't know if they have do
can revoke I don't know if they have do
they have a clawback i don't think so
they have a clawback I don't think so
because that would be a that's the one
that really breaks everything i mean
that really breaks everything I mean
they both break everything but clawback
something more see you next week bye
david i see you next week
david I see you next week
what people are doing
yeah and how they're handling it and
then we should resume this
but again like
I'm
like
i think it's a favor of keeping it
I think it's a favor of keeping it
simple i know that there's like the
simple I know that there's like the
theoretical possibilities in edge cases
but i think it's also worth pointing out
but I think it's also worth pointing out
that i don't know that there are any
that I don't know that there are any
active clawback enabled assets on in
classic right now
just
fyi
i agree with that yeah
I agree with that yeah
all right
see everybody next week
thanks
you